---
title: On Habits
layout: post
tags:
  - life
  - habits

---


# On Habits

I read the book *The Power of Habit* recently and here present some notes
in this post.

## 1. Elements of habit
Cue, Routine, Reward, Cravings
## 2. How habits are formed
Cue, Routine and Reward forms a circle for a habit. Cravings are what
drives habits. If you know how a spark a craving, this would make
creating a new habit easier.

However, these cravings don't have complete authority over us. There
are mechanisms that can help us ignore the temptations. But to
overpower the habit, we must recognise which craving is driving the
behavior.

## 3. How to change a habit?
Genuine change requires work and self-understanding of the cravings
driving the behaviors. Changing any habit requires determination. No
one will quit smoking simply because they sketch a habit loop.

However, by understanding habits' mechanisms, we gain insights that
make new behaviors easier to grasp. Changes are accomplished because
people examine the cues, cravings and rewards that drive their
behaviors and then find ways to replace their self-destructive
routines with healthier alternatives, even if they aren't fully aware
of what they are doing at the time. Understanding the cues and
cravings driving your habits won't make them suddenly disappear, but
it will give you a way to plan how to change the pattern.

**Comments**
> For a habit to stay changed, people must believve change is
> possible. And most often, that belief only emerges with the help of a
> group.
>
> If you want to change a habit, you must find an alternative routine,
> and your odds of success go up dramatically when you commit to
> changing as part of a group. Belief is essensial, and it grows out of
> a communal experience, even if that community is only as large as two people.


### 3.1 Golden Rule of Habit Change
* **You can't extinguish a bad habit, you can only change it.**

* How it works:

**Use the same cue. Provide the same reward. Change the routine.**

### 3.2 Guide to applying these ideas
#### Step 1: Identify the Routine
#### Step 2: Experiment with Rewards
Most cravings are like this: obvious in retrospect, but incredibly
hard to see when we are under their sway. To figure out which cravings
are driving particular habits, it's useful to experiment with
different rewards. This might take a few days, or a week, or
longer. During that period, you shouldn't feef any pressure to make a
real change --- think of yourself as a scientist in the data
collection stage.

After you test four or five different rewards, you can use an old
trick to look for patterns: After each activity, jot down on a piece
of paper the first three things that come to mind when you get back to
your desk. They can be emotions, random thoughts, reflections on how
your're feeling, or just the three words that pop into your head. Then
set an alarm on your watch or computer for 15 minutes. When it goes
off, ask yourself: Do you still feel the urge for that cookie?

The reason why it's important to write down three things--- even if
they are meaningless words-- is twofold. First, it forces a momentary
awareness of what you are thinking or feeling. What's more, studies
show that writing down a few words helps in later recalling what you
are thinking at that moment.

And why the 15 minutes alarm? Because the point of these tests is to
determine the reward you're craving. If, 15 minutes after eating a
donut, you still feel an urge to get up and go to the cafeteria, then
your habit isn't motivated by a sugar craving. On the other hand, if
15 minutes after chatting with a friend, you find it easy to get back
to work, then you've identified the reward--- temporary distraction
and socialization --- that your habit sought to satisfy.

By experimenting with different rewards, you can isolate what you are
actually craving, which is essential in redesigning the habit.




#### Step 3: Isolate the cue
Experiments have shown that almost all habitual cues fit into one of
five categories:
1. location
2. time
3. emotional state
4. other people
5. immediately preceding action


#### Step 4: Have a plan based on the previous three steps

#### My Idea

注意在习惯的三要素中，routine是可以直接可以被观察到的，而其他两者有时
候自己可能大概知道，有时候可能完全不知道。所以理解或改变习惯的关键可能就
在于通过改变rountine，来找到相应的cue和reward，从而明白这三个要素背后的
craving是什么。有些craving可能是好的，有些可能是不好的,如果是好的
craving那么只需要改变相应地routine和reward就好，cue并不需要加以改变。
而如果背后的craving是不好的，那么可能意味着改变这一习惯是一个长期的战
斗，因为你可能需要用一个好的craving所支撑的新习惯来替代这个旧习惯
（cue,routine,reward, all of these)。不过因为明确了cue和reward，这时候
可以采取减少老习惯cue的出现几率，还有就是用好的craving支撑的相似reward来代替旧习
惯reward的方法来做改变。

